I wanna dive in a little bit deeper into
the subject of understanding our audience.
It's shocking, isn't it?
That a design course talks
about understanding users,
who would've known that was coming.
But it is, when you're talking about
product design you really have to,
it's such an important area to talk about.
And particularly, when you're
talking about products as well,
I think it's essential
because essentially,
how you positioning your product and
who you're targeting,
as I said when I use that
task app as an example,
can fundamentally affect the nature
of the product that you're producing.
So, right at the beginning,
we need to identify and
understand who our audience is,
really before we try and do anything else.
And even if it's an existing app
that you're working on, please,
please make sure that is clearly
defined before you go any further.
Otherwise, you're gonna constantly
be hitting disagreements over what
needs to be in or what needs to be out
of the app because people will have
different views about
who the audiences are.
So basically what we need to
do is segment our audiences,
which is a marketing term but
actually very useful.
If you start thinking of your audiences
as just big chunks of people and
there's this kind of vague idea
of the kind of person they are,
then that lacks the clarity that you need
and it needs to be done better than that.
However, the way that I would suggest
that you segment your audiences maybe
a little bit different from how many
people think about segmentation.
Because most people when they think
about segmentation are thinking about it
from a marketing perspective.
So marketing people tend to
segment around demographics or
socioeconomic groups or
interest groups and that kind of thing.
For us, it's fine to think in those terms,
to picture a stay-at-home mum or
whatever else.
But in terms of how you decide to split
out your audience, you wanna split them
out based on different criteria to things
like demographics and stuff like that.
So for example,
different questions, right?
If there's an audience that
has a certain set of questions
that they come to your app with or
certain objections, or
certain challenges that they face,
then that makes a good audience, right?
To segment them in that regards.
Tasks is another really good example,
right?
If an audience wants to complete
different tasks to another audience,
that's a good way of splitting it, right?
Or they've got different needs, then you
wanna split it along those lines as well.
So that task app example I gave from
earlier is a really good example of this.
That project managers,
stay at home mums and a freelancer for
example, that would be an obvious
way of splitting your audience.
Because freelancer, project managers and
stay at home moms have very
different questions that they ask,
very different tasks they wanna complete,
and very different needs, okay?
Well, if you looked at it from
a purely demographic point of view,
actually they could have
all ended up falling into
the same demographic of
certain socioeconomic group.
But it's their needs that define them
rather than their demographics is,
I guess, what I'm getting at.
So looking at your audience in
those terms is very important.
You might also wanna
consider the other little
aspect of this is usage level of the app.
So, if someone is just
using the app occasionally,
then they are gonna have
different needs and
different requirements to somebody
who's using it regularly.
Equally, somebody who's using it for the
first time is gonna have very different
needs to somebody who's been using it for
donkeys years or
different perspective, right?
So it's hard for me to give specific
advice about how you segment, but
thinking around those needs,
those tasks and
those questions will get
you in the right direction.
And then once that has been done,
then it's a matter of beginning to
put together a bit of an empathy map or
a persona around those people.
Now, I tend to avoid using the P word,
the persona word.
And that has come about
because if you say persona,
you can pretty much guarantee
someone in either the marketing
department or
senior management will go, yeah,
we produced a persona last year,
we can use that, right?
But the information that they will have
on their personas will be marketing
information and not the information
that you actually need, right?
So you're better off creating,
calling it something like an empathy map.
It's basically the same thing, but
it has different information on stuff
that we need as product designers.
So it's things like questions and tasks,
what tasks are the user
trying to complete?
What questions or
objections they need answering.
Pain points.
What pain points are users experiencing?
Goals.
What's users ultimate goal,
what they're trying to achieve?
Their journey.
Where is the user on their journey and
what if any interactions that they had so
far?
What's influencing them in using the app,
whether it be people,
things, places, whatever, and
how are they feeling about the experience.
So I tend to take each of my segments,
create an empathy map around those.
But obviously I need to do some user
research in order to understand
what's in those, and so
that is a big part of it as well.
But that is more covered in the the course
that I've done on user research and
testing.
So once you've kind of
segmented your audience,
you then need to think
about their use cases and
how they're gonna be using your app.
And the process that I go through with
that is I start by just gathering
lots of tasks that I think that my
different audiences will need to complete.
And there are loads of sources you
can go to to work out what these are.
You can look at existing
customer feedback,
you can look at site behavior,
you can talk to stakeholders
within both users.
They're a type of stakeholder,
but also internal stakeholders,
especially people that are dealing
with customers on a regular basis.
You can look at search analytics or
you can do competitive analysis,
look at social media, there are all
these kinds of ways that you can kind
of gather a list of things that
someone might wanna do with the app.
Lots of those,
however, require you to have an app
in order to be able to do those.
Not all of them.
You can still look at the competition,
for example.
You can still look at social media.
But if you are struggling to come
up with a big old list of tasks
that your particular segment
might wanna do on your app,
then you can cheat and
ask Chat GPT instead [LAUGH].
Cause it is remarkably good
at coming up with ideas and
brainstorming just to
kind of get you going.
Is that the legitimate and
sensible way of doing it?
Absolutely not.
But we'll cut corners sometimes
in order to move things forward.
So yeah,
you basically here's an example I wrote as
an employee of a particular
university on an HR website.
What kind of things might I
wanna do on that website?
And then it's suggested a load of
things that I might wanna do and
it did a really good job at it, actually.
Cuz in that case I had
done the user research and
it got a big chunk of the tasks
that I had on my list already.
So it does a pretty good job actually,
shockingly.
Then once I've got that list of tasks,
I tend to like turning them into user
story cards, which has been,
I think I stole from Agile.
Is it Agile that uses user story cards?
It doesn't.
I just find it a really nice
way of kind of formatting these
things that people wanna do.
So I ended up with a big
pile of user story cards,
which formatted like this as a,
whatever the segment is, stay at home mum.
I want to easily organize
my grocery list so
that I can get out of the supermarket
as quickly as possible.
And I know when I'm done when I've
got all my food home and packed away,
that's a user story card.
It's not complicated to do,
but it's very useful.
So you'll end up with this
stack ton of tasks that
somebody might wanna do and
you'll end up with so
many that you are now presented
with a problem, all right?
Of if you built an app that accommodated
all of these tasks, it would be unusable.
Now any of you remember
before Microsoft Office
introduced the ribbon design, right?
We had these massive drop-down menus
of all these different functions.
Photoshop used to be like it as well.
It was a nightmare,
in fact it still is if I'm honest,
of loads of palettes and
drop-downs and all.
They've just got so much functionality
crammed into the thing and
no real hierarchy in that, right?
Isn't that, well, if you look
at the Microsoft Office ribbon,
it's taken the most used things
that you use most of the time and
pulled them to the front, right?
That's good design, okay?